---
title: About me
date: 2021-09-10T19:34:01+02:00
---

I enjoy learning new things.

When I was younger I was lucky enough to be able to play around with computers
and programming languages, but at the time I didn't yet realize how deep it all
really is. I was barely writing my first programs in Lua, PHP, or JavaScript
back then.

When I was about 16 years old, by chance, I came across a bunch of
[Japanese](https://youtu.be/SfnbdZR2KOo) [songs](https://youtu.be/M5xgGWeK1lQ)
and I decided that I should learn this beautiful language. It's one thing to
start learning a language and another to actually follow through and learn it,
and well, I guess I'm just this crazy.

Once it was the time to go to a university I decided to study computer science,
and that is where I actually learned what computer science really is or what
implications it has. I came across language like OCaml and Scala which
absolutely blew my mind.

Throughout the years that I could spend at the university I had the privilege
to learn commonly used programming languages like C#, Java, TypeScript, Python,
C++, and other useful technologies. I also went out of my own way to learn
Haskell and Rust.

## Q&A

**Q. Why did you create this website?**

I decided to create it as a way to practice my skills, and indeed a lot of what
I currently know about running a website and web development is a direct result
of me working on this. To simplify everything it's a static website served by
Nginx, this way I don't have to do nearly any maintenance work.

**Q. Can I take a look at the source code?**

Sure thing! The source code is available either in a repository on
[my private Forgejo instance](https://git.kamoshi.org/kamov/website) or
[on Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/kamov/website) (mirror), and you're welcome
to learn. I just have one single request please, if you would like to use this
code for your own website do allow others to learn from it too!

**Q. What's your current setup?**

I currently use Arch Linux with KDE Plasma desktop as my daily driver. For
editing code I use Zed and Neovim. I also have a server running NixOS, it's the
same server which serves this website.

**Q. Why do you use Arch Linux?**

In the past I used Windows, and GNU/Linux distros like Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Debian
Arch Linux or NixOS. Throughout the years I came to a realization that Arch
Linux works for me. I enjoy the rolling release model and having everything up
to date. NixOS is interesting, but I don't really feel like I benefit from it
enough, so it's an overkill.

**Q. Why do you use Zed?**

I've used to use just Neovim, but then I moved to Zed, because it has more
features out of the box, a proper plugin system and first class support for Vim
bindings. I still use Neovim for some tasks, Zed is really nice to use as an
IDE, while Neovim feels like a really nice notepad for quick edits in terminal.
I don't feel like using Emacs, because I'm not really a fan of lisps, and it
seems like way too much for my taste.
